it's 1875.
there are 38 states in the u.s queen
victoria rules the uk
the eiffel tower won't be built for
another 12 years
the empire state building not for
another 50.
the average life expectancy for a 19th
century female
is about 45 years one woman born this
year
will nearly triple that her name is
jean-louis calmall
she was born february 21st in arle
france
right at the beginning of the global
industrial boom she was a year old when
the telephone was invented
the phonograph followed two years later
then the automobile
radio tv the computer and the internet
over the decades
by the time microsoft was founded kalman
was already 100
when the first smartphone was invented
she was 117.
a woman alive in the 90s perhaps within
your lifetime
could remember when candles were used to
light houses
she knew a world without airplanes and
spaceships the wright brothers took
flight when cal mom was already a grown
woman at 28.
when the first person went into space
she was 86 years old
madame calman holds the world's record
for the longest-lived person ever
she survived 122 years and 164 days
or did she at the age of 21
jean got married to ferdinand at that
time
she would wear long fancy dresses with
her hair and elegant updos
victorian women didn't wear pants when
jean was a young adult
in 1898 jean gave birth to her only
child
yvonne by the time her daughter was in
her 30s
she and her mother would start wearing
tailored suits
a trend started by coco chanel in the
1920s
john survived a lot at the beginning of
the 20th century
but the worst came in 1934 her daughter
yvonne
passed away at 36. in 1942
jean lost her husband ferdinand by 1963
the 88 year old was left all alone
she had outlived all her heirs
with no one to hand the family's huge
apartment down to
she made a deal with her notary monsieur
raf ray
in 1969. jean agreed that raf ray would
pay her
2 500 francs a month around the same
equivalent in us dollars today
for the rest of her life once she was
gone
he'd get the apartment sounds like a
good deal to make with a 94
year old but she ended up outliving him
too
his widow continued the payments until
jean's passing in nineteen ninety seven
in total because madame cao mong had
lived so incredibly long
the raph rays ended up paying 11 times
more than expected
it's considered one of the worst
investments ever made
many people noted that jean was always
full of energy
she looked and acted 20 or even 30 years
younger than her age
a theory began that jean was actually
her daughter yvonne
and that's when all the mystery began
a group of scientists decided to check
if jean's
extreme longevity was real for them
her case was too extreme and unique not
to be scrutinized
cow mom claimed that it was her healthy
diet and physical activity
she swam played tennis and even cycled
up to her 100th year
she also put it down to her carefree
stress-free lifestyle
she never had to work a day in her long
life
though skeptics think that in the photos
where she's 110 years old
she's actually no more than 90. an
expert in aging closely examined images
of the super centenarian
they noted no signs of age-related
frailty
which is typical for people living to
100 let alone two decades longer than
that
one mathematician even studied her
genealogy
and made an equation showing how slim
the chances were
of anyone in the family living that long
researching the course of jean's
incredibly long life
the scientists were doubtful as to why
she never mentioned several significant
events
that she supposedly lived through a
major one being the massive cholera
outbreak of 1884
she would have been nine plenty old to
remember something like that
yvonne hadn't even been born yet
there were questions with her documents
too her id card from the 1930s
stated that her hair and eyes were
extremely dark
pretty much black but at the end of her
life
her eyes were gray and she had chestnut
hair before it went totally white
true in about 10 to 15 percent of people
the eyes can get lighter with age
since pigments in the iris degrade but
for most people
the eyes darken over the years because
melanin builds up in the iris
but there was also a problem with her
height jean was 4 feet 11 inches
yvonne was a bit taller about five feet
at
114 years of age jean was still
four feet 11. her height hadn't changed
an inch
extremely odd since people shrink as
they got older
because the cartilage between the joints
thins out
for many years john somehow managed to
remain unnoticed
she moved to a nursing home in 1985 when
she was 110
no newspapers in aurel had mentioned any
centenarian celebrating their 100th
birthday
10 years prior madame calman didn't
become that famous
until 1988. there was a celebration of
100 years
since vincent van gogh stayed in aryl
john told reporters that she'd met the
famous artist when he was in town
she was 13 at the time she then appeared
in a documentary called
vincent and me in 1990 just five years
later
now age 120 mong got the world record
for the oldest person to ever live
but for some reason she'd get her
husband and father
mixed up in her stories she first
mentioned that the family store
belonged to her father but it actually
belonged to fernand
jean's husband jean's father nicholas
cowmon
was a shipbuilder he never ran any store
it would make sense for yvonne to get
her story wrong
it was her father who owned the store
one more thing that just didn't fit jean
mentioned several times that a woman
named marta would take her to school
according to the records amarta did work
for the cow moms
but she was 10 years younger than jean
there was no way she would take little
jean to school
she could however easily accompany young
yvonne
but the skeptic scientists didn't stop
there
looking at the only known photo where
the two women are together
they look quite different but when the
researchers compared photos of young
yvonne
and ole jean they found a notable
similarity in their facial bones
noses and other features that made it
seem like they were one and the same
person another curious fact is that
yvonne
had a fibroma on the tip of her nose
surprisingly
in some photos zhang had the same growth
could yvonne really have inherited a
random growth of mutating cells
in the very same place her mother had
one
it does seem strangely coincidental with
all this
the skeptics concluded that it was
actually yvonne
not jean who lived until 1997.
their theory was that zhang is the one
that passed away back in 1934
at the age of 59. the family they say
then decided that the daughter would
impersonate her mother
the alleged reason to evade high
inheritance taxes
luckily her hometown arl has one of the
richest and best preserved archives in
the world
it had plenty of interesting documents
including jean's original birth and
marriage
certificates but oddly enough photo
evidence is scarce
a cousin of jean's grandson claims to
have burnt all the remaining family
portraits back in 1994
on jean's order it begs the question why
would she have wanted that
despite all the skepticism jean has
still held on to her record
and perhaps she's not such an outlier
after all
the oldest living man jeremiah kimura
from japan
made it to 116. in fact japan leads the
world in centenarian populations
they have more than 70 000 people at or
over the age of 100.
whether elderly jean was really her
daughter or not
we may never know but perhaps it's
better to focus on what today's super
long-lived people are doing right